hello everyone my name is Alex and my
name is Jay and welcome to your task of
the week which is about what IELTS
speaking part 2 okay this is tricky
let's get started alright in today's
lesson I'm gonna give you a speaking
part 2 overview and then Jay you're
gonna do some practice mm-hmm and then
you're gonna practice again with the PPF
method okay that'll make it easier
cool bananas so what happens in speaking
part 2 well basically the examiner will
give you a booklet like this okay and
your topic is on here and also pen and
paper how lovely for you to make your
notes with excellent and then they'll
have a clock in front of them and then
give you one minute during that one
minute you can read the topic write
notes if you want okay so one minute
preparation time and should I be writing
full sentences no no no there's no time
for that yeah there is no time that I've
taken this test before and that one
minute just goes like that so you
basically got enough time to just write
some key words that's about it yeah yeah
so once the minute is up then the
examiner will ask you to start speaking
and you should speak for two minutes all
right all right
this is hard isn't it because it in real
life
when do you just say hey can you speak
about this for two minutes
it's weird and the examiner sometimes
may not look at you the examiner may
look at their feet or at the table or be
writing something right but you should
just keep going don't worry about the
examiner all right cool well should we
give it a go let's go all right let's
have a look at an IELTS speaking part
two tasks card
okay so describe a movie that you
enjoyed you should say where you saw it
what kind of movie it was what it was
about and explain how you felt about it
okay cool bananas I'm ready to go ah can
I start okay alright so so this movie is
about this guy climbed a mountain then
after he climbed the mountain he climbed
another mountain and then after that he
went
home and then he went to bed No is that
it that's it okay I think we need a
strategy
why can't we do need a strategy because
this is hard I mean it was a good effort
but you didn't use much variety I heard
just one tense you're linking was and
then and then then yeah and you didn't
get me a two minute wasn't very
interesting was it it wasn't I think you
can do better I can do better all right
let me take you through how I can do
better so this is called the PPF
strategy past present future okay so I'm
going to sort of be talking mainly about
the past story that single movie that I
enjoyed but I'm going to try and weave
in some present tense or present perfect
for example and possibly even some
future stuff like modal verbs or even
the future tense so how I want this to
occur is that main movie that I'm going
to talk about that past one will be the
main story and this will come from the
distant past I'm going to think of
something that happened a movie that I
watched like a few years ago or even
when I was a kid or something like that
for some reason for me and probably the
same for you it's just easier for me to
access a memory from the distant past
mm-hmm and by the way when you're doing
this just go with the first thing that
comes to your head if you're sitting
here going I'll talk about this movie I
don't know talk about this movie oh no
no what about that movie don't do that
doesn't the first thing that pops into
your mind from your distant past is the
main story okay but then if you run out
of time or you're just running out of
ideas for example probably running out
of ideas you might want to think about
something that happens more recently so
a movie that you saw recently and you
move into a story about that it's not
necessarily in the present tense it
might be present perfect or present
perfect continuous or something like
that or even just past tense as well but
you're going to shift gears a little bit
and then at the end if you've got some
time you might mention something about
the future
just in a couple of sentences at the end
so let's look at this in more detail so
this will be your main story the single
movie for example from the from the
distant past moving into another story
that happened more recently and then
just some comments about the future so
my strategy or what I would write down
on my piece of paper is I'm going to
talk about Shawshank Redemption that's
my main story then I'm going to link it
to a movie that I saw more recently
called free solo and then possibly talk
about how free solo could have a sequel
and that will allow me to use some
future tense so that main story will go
for about 60 seconds my second story
will go for about 45 seconds and my
final comments about the future will go
for what 10 15 seconds something like
that all right so I've got my PPF method
strategy thingamajiggy in my mind I
think I'm ready to go okay okay just
before we begin though with these dot
points Alex how closely do I have to
follow them uh actually the dot points
they don't really matter this is a
completely different story to writing
where you really have to deal with
everything in front of you for speaking
these are just there to help you speak
for two minutes okay so the examiners
are not marking me on whether I follow
the topic card not at all some
examiner's don't even read them
interesting all right let's get started
can you start speaking now please sure
so the film I'd like to discuss which I
really enjoyed I actually watched many
years ago it's called Shawshank
Redemption you've probably heard of it
it's I think as far as I know it's one
of the most popular films in history I
can't really remember where I saw it and
that's probably a good thing I think
that says something about how good this
film is because I'm sure my surroundings
kind of disappeared while I was watching
it I'm sure that happened for everybody
else too
basically the movie is about a guy who
is falsely accused of a crime that he
commit and he's sent to prison and the
whole movie is about him endeavouring to
escape from prison and while there are
lots of other themes and lots of other
characters I think the central theme of
this film is about justice and I think
one of the reasons why resonated with me
so strongly is because he was falsely
accused he was innocent and finally in
the end he is free well he frees himself
and it's a beautiful film I actually
watched another film recently called
free solo which had a kind of similar
theme it was about a mountain climber
and what he was trying to do in a
similar way that the guy was trying to
escape from jail is he was trying to
climb to the top of a mountain however
he was trying to do it without ropes and
it kind of gave me a similar feeling to
the jail escape film in that I don't
know it made me empathize a lot with
this guy it made me sort of actually my
hands sweated my heart pounded it was a
really really interesting film I'm
actually hoping that they'll release a
sequel to the mountain climbing film
because it would be interesting to know
what this guy does next
I mean will he climb Mount Everest for
example without ropes
who knows thank you alright PPF method
for me made that so much easier it was
much better yeah yeah it was much better
see if I just if I don't really have
that distant past to recent past and
possible future what I tend to do with
these things is just go round and round
in circles yeah it's good to have a
structure and a start a middle and an
end
like your speech did yeah and I think
also when you sort of shift from that
distant past story or memory into the
recent past story you sort of start
again and so then you've got much more
information or language to to talk about
which is good cool well thank you all
right
when you're speaking the examiner
actually gives you four separate scores
by the way fluency and coherence lexical
resource grammatical range and accuracy
and pronunciation and this method is
particularly good for grammatical range
and accuracy if I show you here on the
criteria about seven it says uses a
range of complex structures with some
flexibility and frequent error free
sentences and compare that to band a
which says wide range of structures
flexibly majority of sentences are error
free okay so by talking about distant
past recent past and possibly future I'm
demonstrating a wide range of grammar
yeah I think it's an easy way to
demonstrate that the examiner yeah yeah
okay that's good so I don't have to
think about I'm gonna use this verb
tense and then this verb tense it's more
just if I go from distant past the
recent past the future naturally this
language is going to come out yeah
exactly when you're preparing maybe you
can think a bit more about good tenses
you're using yeah but on test a it
should be automatic gotcha
cool cool speaking of preparing if
you're not yet to subscribe into this
YouTube channel
become one because we release really
good videos each week also feel free to
like this video comment on it and share
it with your friends on Facebook
especially those who are taking the
IELTS and what else we got here oh by
the way if you haven't signed up for
free at e to language comm that's
actually where all the magic happens our
YouTube channels are good but everything
is on e to language comm including
practice questions that you can sign up
for tutorials live classes writing
feedback lots and lots of stuff there
everything everything yeah okay well
thank you we'll see you next time for
our eetu IELTS task of the week so yeah
yeah
[Music]